[Doc] Update tracing quickstart to include Typescript SDK (#16630)
mlflow/mlflow: docs/docs/genai/tracing/quickstart/typescript-openai.mdx

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import { APILink } from "@site/src/components/APILink";
import ImageBox from '@site/src/components/ImageBox';
import TabsWrapper from '@site/src/components/TabsWrapper';

# Tracing Quickstart (TS/JS)

:::info

The Python quickstart is available <ins>[here](/genai/tracing/quickstart/python-openai)</ins>.

:::

This quickstart guide will walk you through setting up a simple GenAI application with MLflow Tracing. In less than 10 minutes, you'll enable tracing, run a basic application, and explore the generated traces in the MLflow UI.

## Prerequisites

Install the required packages by running the following command:

```bash
npm install mlflow-openai
```

:::info

> The code example in this guide uses OpenAI SDK, however, the contents of this guide are applicable to any other LLM providers, such as Anthropic, Google, Bedrock, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code example in this guide uses the OpenAI SDK; however, the contents of this guide are applicable to any other LLM providers, such as Anthropic, Google, Bedrock, and more.
```

For other LLM providers that are not natively integrated with auto-tracing, install the `mlflow-tracing` package and wrap the LLM call with the `mlflow.trace` wrapper function instead.

> 

Author: Nice idea!

:::

## Step 1: Set up your environment

### Connect to MLflow

MLflow logs Traces in a tracking server. Connect your application to the tracking server by one of the following methods.

<TabsWrapper>
<Tabs>
<TabItem value="python" label="Self Host (pip) " default>

The Typescript package does not contain the tracking server. To start a self-hosted tracking server from Python:

```bash
# Install mlflow python package
pip install mlflow -U

# Start MLflow tracking server locally
mlflow ui --port 5000

# This will start the server at http://127.0.0.1:5000
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="docker" label="Self Host (Docker) ">

The Typescript package does not contain the tracking server. To start a self-hosted tracking server using Docker:

> # TODO: Update this

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

:::

### Create a new MLflow Experiment

Create a new MLflow experiment in the MLflow UI, or choose an existing experiment.

### Initialize the Tracing SDK

<TabsWrapper>
  <Tabs>
    <TabItem value="self-hosted" label="Self Host" default>

    ```typescript
    import { init } from "mlflow-tracing";

    init({
        trackingUri: "<your-tracking-server-uri>",
        experimentId: "<your-experiment-id>",
    });
    ```
    </TabItem>

    <TabItem value="remote" label="Remote MLflow Server">

    ```typescript
    import { init } from "mlflow-tracing";

    init({
        trackingUri: "<remote-tracking-server-uri>",
        experimentId: "<your-experiment-id>",
    });
    ```

    </TabItem>

    <TabItem value="databricks" label="Databricks">

>     Method 1: Explicitly set the host and token in the init function.

Reviewer: Do we want to recommend people embedding a PAT in source code? 
Can we show reading from a file instead?

Author: Good point. We surely don't recommend it. The `init` function actually load env vars automatically, so using `process.env` is verbose. But this option still needs to be documented because users may load token differently. Let me do
* Change the order to (1) databrickscfg (2) env var (3) direct set
* Add a warning for writing host/token directly in code base.
* Add `dotenv` tip in the option (2)

    init({
        trackingUri: "databricks",
        experimentId: "<your-experiment-id>",
        host: "<your-databricks-host>",
        token: "<your-databricks-personal-access-token>",
    });
    ```

    Method 2: Use Databricks config file for authentication.

    ```typescript
    import { init } from "mlflow-tracing";

    init({
        trackingUri: "databricks",
        experimentId: "<your-experiment-id>",
        // Optional: Set the Databricks config file path if it is not in the default location
        configPath: "<your-databricks-config-file-path>",
    });
    ```

    Method 3: Use environment variables

    ```bash
    export DATABRICKS_HOST=<your-databricks-host>
    export DATABRICKS_TOKEN=<your-databricks-personal-access-token>
    ```

    ```typescript
    import { init } from "mlflow-tracing";

    init({
        trackingUri: "databricks",
        experimentId: "<your-experiment-id>",
    });
    ```

    </TabItem>

  </Tabs>
</TabsWrapper>

### Set OpenAI API Key (or other LLM providers)

```bash
export OPENAI_API_KEY="your-api-key-here"  # Replace with your actual API key
```

## Step 2: Trace a single LLM call

> Let's start with a simple example of tracing a single LLM call. We first wrap the OpenAI client with the `tracedOpenAI` function. After that, every calls to OpenAI API will generate as a trace span, capturing the input, output, latency, token counts, and other metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's start with a simple example of tracing a single LLM call. We first wrap the OpenAI client with the `tracedOpenAI` function. After that, each call to OpenAI API will generate a trace span, capturing the input, output, latency, token counts and other metadata.
```

```typescript
import { OpenAI } from "openai";
import { tracedOpenAI } from "mlflow-openai";

// Wrap the OpenAI client with the tracedOpenAI function
const client = tracedOpenAI(new OpenAI());

// Invoke the client as usual
const response = await client.chat.completions.create({
    model: "o4-mini",
    messages: [
        {"role": "system", "content": "You are a helpful weather assistant."},
        {"role": "user", "content": "What's the weather like in Seattle?"},
    ],
})
```

> After running the code above, go to the MLflow UI and select "Traces" tab. It should show the newly created trace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After running the code above, go to the MLflow UI and select the "Traces" tab. It should show the newly created trace.
```

                    model: "o4-mini",
                    messages: messages
                });
                return finalResponse.choices[0].message.content;
            }
            return aiMsg.content;
        },
        {
            name: "run_tool_agent",
            spanType: mlflow.SpanType.AGENT,
        }
    );
}

```

Now we can run the application.

```typescript
# Run the tool calling agent
const question = "What's the weather like in Seattle?";
await runToolAgent(question);
```

## Step 4: Explore Traces in the UI

After running the application, you can explore the traces in the MLflow UI.

<ImageBox src="/images/llms/tracing/quickstart/openai-tool-calling-trace-detail.png" alt="Tool Calling Trace" width="90%" />

The trace shows all LLM invocations and tool calls, organized in a tree structure. You can also inspect the timeline breakdown by clicking the timeline icon next to the tree view. This helps you understand where the time is spent in the application.

<ImageBox src="/images/llms/tracing/quickstart/openai-tool-calling-trace-timeline.png" alt="Tool Calling Trace Timeline" width="90%" />

## Step 5: Attach Feedbacks on Traces

> As a last step of this quickstart, let's attach a feedback on the generated traces. In the real world development, human feedback is critical to improve the quality of the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a last step of this quickstart, let's attach feedback on the generated traces. In real world development, human feedback is critical to improve the quality of GenAI-powered applications.
```

> To add a feedback on a trace, you can open the trace detail page and click the "Add new Assessment" button on the top right. It will open an input form where you can provide a various feedback values and metadata. For example, we can add a feedback called " Quality" with a integer value (1~5), indicating how good the answer is. Then we can also put the detailed rationale behind the score for future reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add a feedback to a trace, you can open the trace detail page and click the "Add new Assessment" button on the top right. It will open an input form where you can provide various feedback values and metadata. For example, we can add a feedback entry called "Quality" with a integer value (1~5), indicating how good the answer is. We can also put the detailed rationale behind the score for future reference.
```
